[DO NOT MERGE]FRW-1441 Dynamic multi store integration guides (#1650)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/scos/dev/tutorials-and-howtos/howtos/howto-set-up-dynamic-multiple-stores.md

---
title: "HowTo: Set up dynamic multiple stores"
description: Learn how to set up multiple stores for your project.
last_updated: Feb 1, 2023
template: howto-guide-template
originalArticleId: 218ea4d5-de80-4aba-96fc-f67a9d13711c
redirect_from:
  - /docs/howto-set-up-dynamic-multiple-stores
  - /docs/en/howto-set-up-dynamic-multiple-stores
  - /v6/docs/howto-set-up-dynamic-multiple-stores
  - /v6/docs/en/howto-set-up-dynamic-multiple-stores
  - /docs/dynamic-multiple-stores
  - /docs/en/dynamic-multiple-stores
---

{% info_block warningBox "Dynamic multiple stores in cloud environments" %}

For instructions about setting up dynamic multiple stores in Spryker Cloud Commerce OS, see [Add and remove databases of stores](/docs/cloud/dev/spryker-cloud-commerce-os/multi-store-setups/add-and-remove-databases-of-stores.html).

{% endinfo_block %}

With the Spryker Commerce OS, you can create multiple stores per your business requirements for different scenarios. 

> The dynamic multi-store setup is very versatile and customizable—for example, you can do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dynamic multi-store setup is very versatile and customizable — for example, you can do the following:
```

    ...
    - EU
    - US
...    
```

Also, make sure that commands that need to trigger for each store have stores: `true` added, as in the following example. This is especially important for validation cache generation in the `docker.yml` file, as this is responsible for generating the validation cache when your application is deployed on the Spryker PaaS:

```yaml
...
        rest-request-validation-cache-warmup:
            command: 'vendor/bin/console rest-api:build-request-validation-cache'
            stores: true
...
```

## Configure the deploy file

According to the desired infrastructure setup, configure the deploy file for the dynamic multi-store setup. In the following example, we configure the [dynamic multi-store setup 1](#multi-store-setup-infrastructure-options): database, search engine, and key-value storage are shared:

Deploy file configuration for the dynamic multi-store setup 1:

```yaml
# ....

regions:
    EU:
        services:
            mail:
                sender:
                    name: Spryker No-Reply
                    email: no-reply@spryker.local
            database:
                database: eu-docker
                username: spryker

>                 password: secret

Reviewer: I know that we expose this password in the repo, but would be nice if we can add generic example here instead of saving our default password in web archive forever :)

            key_value_store:
                namespace: 1
            search:
                namespace: eu_search

    US:
        services:
            mail:
                sender:
                    name: Spryker No-Reply
                    email: no-reply@spryker.local
            database:
                database: us-docker
                username: spryker
                password: secret
            broker:
                namespace: us-docker
            key_value_store:
                namespace: 3
            search:
                namespace: us_search
# ...                      
```

* The `regions` parameter defines one or more isolated instances of the Spryker applications that have only one persistent database to work with. The visibility of the project's stores is limited to operating only with the stores that belong to a region, which refers to geographical terms like data centers, regions, and continents in the real world.

For more information about deploy file configuration, see [Deploy file reference - 1.0](/docs/scos/dev/the-docker-sdk/{{site.version}}/deploy-file/deploy-file-reference-1.0.html).

## Define the store context

> You can define regions by domains and define stores by domains or by headers. We recommend defining stores by regions, which is supported by default.  

Reviewer: how do we define store by domain?

Author: sorry. copy paste

> Defining stores by headers is not supported by default, but you can use the following workaround.

Reviewer: workaround is missing

Author: added

* Separated data management for entities like products, customers, and orders.
* On-demand setup of any type of environment per region, store, like test, staging, or production.

It's the most expensive but flexible option in terms of per-store scaling and performance.

## Set up multiple stores

To set up multiple stores, follow the steps in the following sections:

### Configure code buckets

Code buckets provide an easy way to execute different business logic in runtime based on different HTTP or console command requests. To configure code buckets, see [Code buckets](/docs/scos/dev/architecture/code-buckets.html).

### Configure stores

1. Configuration stores will be created in the database. To configure stores, see [Dynamic multiple stores installation and configuration](/docs/scos/dev/feature-integration-guides/202212.0/dynamic-multiple-stores.html).
2. Optional: Define store-specific configuration:
  1. For one or more stores you've defined in database, define a separate, store-specific configuration. For example, `config/Shared/config-default_docker_de.php` is the configuration file for the `DE` store in the docker environment.

>   2. To apply the defined, store-specific configuration, adjust the related deploy file in the `environment` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  b. To apply the defined, store-specific configuration, adjust the related deploy file in the `environment` section.
```

  In the following example, the `docker_de` environment name points to the `config/Shared/config-default_docker_de.php` store-specific configuration file. For more information about this deploy file parameter, see the [environment](/docs/scos/dev/the-docker-sdk/{{site.version}}/deploy-file/deploy-file-reference-1.0.html#environment):

  ```yaml
  ....

  environment: docker_de

  image:
    tag:
  ```

3. To import data for the stores you've added, adjust all the [import files and import configuration files](/docs/scos/dev/data-import/{{site.version}}/data-importers-overview-and-implementation.html).

Define the import source for the `EU` region and  `DE` store you've added:

```php
# Setup data import for region 

 - data_entity: store
   source: data/import/common/EU/store.csv

# Catalog Setup data import
...
- data_entity: product-price
  source: data/import/common/DE/product_price.csv
...   
```

> 4. Configure installation recipes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Configure the installation recipes.
```

Add the new regions to the installation recipes in `config/install/*` as follows:

```yaml
...

regions:
    ...
    - {REGION_NAME}
...    
```

For example, to add the `EU` and `US` region, adjust an installation recipe as follows:

```yaml
...

stores:
    ...
    - EU
    - US
...    
```

Also, make sure that commands that need to trigger for each store have stores: `true` added, as in the following example. This is especially important for validation cache generation in the `docker.yml` file, as this is responsible for generating the validation cache when your application is deployed on the Spryker PaaS:

```yaml
...
        rest-request-validation-cache-warmup:
            command: 'vendor/bin/console rest-api:build-request-validation-cache'
            stores: true
...
```

## Configure the deploy file

According to the desired infrastructure setup, configure the deploy file for the dynamic multi-store setup. In the following example, we configure the [dynamic multi-store setup 1](#multi-store-setup-infrastructure-options): database, search engine, and key-value storage are shared:

> Deploy file configuration for the dynamic multi-store setup 1:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploy the file configuration for the dynamic multi-store setup 1:
```

```yaml
# ....

regions:
    EU:
        services:
            mail:
                sender:
                    name: Spryker No-Reply
                    email: no-reply@spryker.local
            database:
                database: eu-docker
                username: username
                password: password

            broker:
                namespace: eu-docker
            key_value_store:
                namespace: 1
            search:
                namespace: eu_search

    US:
        services:
            mail:
                sender:
                    name: Spryker No-Reply
                    email: no-reply@spryker.local
            database:
                database: us-docker
                username: username
                password: password
            broker:
                namespace: us-docker
            key_value_store:
                namespace: 3
            search:
                namespace: us_search
# ...                      
```

> * The `regions` parameter defines one or more isolated instances of the Spryker applications that have only one persistent database to work with. The visibility of the project's stores is limited to operating only with the stores that belong to a region, which refers to geographical terms like data centers, regions, and continents in the real world.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `regions` parameter defines one or more isolated instances of the Spryker applications that only have one persistent database to work with. The visibility of the project's stores is limited to operating only with stores that belong to a region, such as a data center, country, or continent in the real world.
```

> For more information about deploy file configuration, see [Deploy file reference - 1.0](/docs/scos/dev/the-docker-sdk/{{site.version}}/deploy-file/deploy-file-reference-1.0.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about deploying a file configuration, see [Deploy file reference - 1.0](/docs/scos/dev/the-docker-sdk/{{site.version}}/deploy-file/deploy-file-reference-1.0.html).
```

## Define the store context

You can define regions by domains or by headers. We recommend defining stores by regions, which is supported by default.  
Defining stores by headers is not supported by default, but you can use the following workaround.

{% info_block infoBox %}

> The workaround is only supported by the [multi-store store setup 1](#multi-store-setup-infrastructure-options) when all the resources are shared. With the other setup, you need to manage the infrastructure configuration on the application level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The workaround is only supported by the [multi-store store setup 1](#multi-store-setup-infrastructure-options) when all the resources are shared. With the other setups, you need to manage the infrastructure configuration on the application level.
```

**public/Glue/index.php**
```php
<?php

...
require_once APPLICATION_ROOT_DIR . '/vendor/autoload.php';

// Add this block
if (isset($_SERVER['HTTP_APPLICATION_STORE'])) {
    putenv('APPLICATION_STORE=' . $_SERVER['HTTP_APPLICATION_STORE']);
}

Environment::initialize();

...
```

> To check if the workaround works, in the browser console, run the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To check if the workaround works, run the following in the browser console:
```
